reorganize plugin testing code (#3319)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/developer_guide/plugins/plugin_tests.rst

.. _plugin.testing:

Testing AiiDA plugins
=====================

When developing a plugin it is important to write tests.

> We recommend using the `pytest`_ framework, while he `unittest`_ framework is also supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using the `pytest`_ framework, while the `unittest`_ framework is also supported.
```

One concern when running tests for AiiDA plugins is to separate the test environment from your production environment.

> Ideally, each individual test should be run against a fresh AiiDA database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the kind of test, each should even be run against a fresh AiiDA database.
```

AiiDA ships with tools that take care of this for you. They will:

 * start a temporary postgres server
 * create a new database
 * create a temporary ``.aiida`` folder
 * create a test profile
 * (optional) reset the AiiDA database before every individual test

thus letting you focus on testing the functionality of your plugin without having to worry about this separation.

.. note::
   The overhead for setting up the temporary environment is of the order of a few seconds and occurs only once per test session.

If you prefer to run tests on an existing profile, say ``test_profile``, simply set the following environment variable before running your tests::

>   export AIIDA_TEST_PROFILE=test_profile

Reviewer: is `AIIDA_TEST_PROFILE` correct? I think I saw you use `TEST_AIIDA_PROFILE` in our own tests

Author: Thanks for spotting this - this actually highlights a bit of an issue:

We've been using `TEST_AIIDA_BACKEND` so far in the travis tests, so `TEST_AIIDA_PROFILE` would follow this pattern.
However, the other environment variables, such as `AIIDA_PATH` start with `AIIDA` and if we would like to keep this pattern, now would be a good point to decide.

Perhaps `AIIDA_TEST_PROFILE` and `AIIDA_TEST_BACKEND` would be better?

Author: To summarize: we discussed to switch all variables to `AIIDA_...`, and to introduce a warning when running `verdi devel tests` while the `AIIDA_TEST_PROFILE` is set, so that as long as the two testing systems coexist, people don't get confused by how to control each.
